feat(eslint-plugin): [prefer-at] create rule (#6411)
typescript-eslint/typescript-eslint: packages/eslint-plugin/docs/rules/prefer-at.md

---
description: 'Enforce the use of `array.at(-1)` instead of `array[array.length - 1]`.'
---

> 🛑 This file is source code, not the primary documentation location! 🛑
>
> See **https://typescript-eslint.io/rules/prefer-at** for documentation.

> There are two ways to get the last item of the array:

Reviewer: [Proofreading]

```suggestion
There are two common ways to get the last item of an array:
```

- `arr[arr.length - 1]`: getting an item by index calculated relative to the length of the array.

> - `arr.at(-1)`: getting an item by the `at` method. [Docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/at)

Reviewer: [Proofreading] Informative link titles makes it easier to navigate through the page with a screenreader. And this is a bit less text to read:

```suggestion
- `arr.at(-1)`: getting an item by the [`at` method](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/at).
```

> `arr.at(-1)` is a cleaner equivalent to `arr[arr.length - 1]`.
> 
> This rule supports the following types:
> 
> - `string` or `String`
> - `Array`
> - `Int8Array`
> - `Uint8Array`
> - `Uint8ClampedArray`
> - `Int16Array`
> - `Uint16Array`
> - `Int32Array`
> - `Float32Array`
> - `Uint32Array`
> - `Float64Array`
> - `BigInt64Array`
> - `BigUint64Array`

Reviewer: [Proofreading] Folks probably don't care about the exact full list of these integer arrays, just that they're all supported.

```suggestion
`arr.at(-1)` is a cleaner equivalent to `arr[arr.length - 1]`.

This rule suggests code use `arr.at(-1)`, as it's cleaner than `arr[arr.length - 1]`.
It supports built-in array and string types, including integer arrays such as `Int8Array`.
```

## Options

```ts
interface Options {
  ignoreFunctions?: boolean;
}

> ```

Reviewer: [Request] No need to explicitly spell out `interface Options`, it's auto-generated. See http://localhost:3000/rules/prefer-at locally (you can start the web server with `yarn start` from the monorepo root).

It would be good to have a text explanation of what `ignoreFunctions` does though.

## Examples

### `ignoreFunctions = false` (default)

<!--tabs-->

### ❌ Incorrect

```ts
let arr = [1, 2, 3];
let a = arr[arr.length - 1];

function getArr(): Array<number> {
  return arr;
}
let b = getArr()[getArr().length - 1];
```

### ✅ Correct

```ts
let arr = [1, 2, 3];
let a = arr.at(-1);

function getArr(): Array<number> {
  return arr;
}
let b = getArr().at(-1);
```

<!--/tabs-->

### `ignoreFunctions = true`

<!--tabs-->

### ❌ Incorrect

```ts
let arr = [1, 2, 3];
let a = arr[arr.length - 1];
```

### ✅ Correct

```ts
let arr = [1, 2, 3];
let a = arr.at(-1);

function getArr(): Array<number> {
  return arr;
}
let b = getArr()[getArr().length - 1];
```

<!--/tabs-->

## When Not To Use It

> If you support a browser that does not match
> [this table](https://caniuse.com/mdn-javascript_builtins_array_at)
> or use `node.js < 16.6.0` and don't include the polyfill

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you support a runtime environment that doesn't support [ES2022's `.at`](https://caniuse.com/mdn-javascript_builtins_array_at) and don't include a polyfill, you can ignore this rule.
```
